---
title: Covid-19 Tests
created: '2020-11-10T16:56:46.622950'
modified: '2020-12-04T19:34:41.081183'
state: active
type: dataset
tags: []
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: 'https://data.sfgov.org/api/views/nfpa-mg4g/rows.csv?accessType=DOWNLOAD'
json_url: 'https://data.sfgov.org/api/views/nfpa-mg4g/rows.json?accessType=DOWNLOAD'
layout: post

---
<strong>A. SUMMARY</strong>
Case information on COVID-19 Laboratory testing. This data includes a daily count of test results reported, and how many of those were positive, negative, and indeterminate. Reported tests include tests with a positive, negative or indeterminate result. Indeterminate results, which could not conclusively determine whether COVID-19 virus was present, are not included in the calculation of percent positive. Testing for the novel coronavirus is available through commercial, clinical, and hospital laboratories, as well as the SFDPH Public Health Laboratory.

<strong>B. HOW THE DATASET IS CREATED</strong>
Laboratory test volume and positivity for COVID-19 is based on electronic laboratory test reports. Deduplication, quality assurance measures and other data verification processes maximize accuracy of laboratory test information.

<strong>C. UPDATE PROCESS</strong>
Updated daily

<strong>D. HOW TO USE THIS DATASET</strong>
Due to the high degree of variation in the time needed to complete tests by different labs there is a delay in this reporting. On March 24 the Health Officer ordered all labs in the City to report complete COVID-19 testing information to the local and state health departments. In order to track trends over time, a data user can analyze this data by "result_date" and see how the count of reported results and positivity rate have changed over time.
